The main objective of this project is to provide a platform which will provide the necessary level of semantic interoperability between EHR systems and clinical trial systems. This platform will provide a set of data services such as data extraction, appropriate data transformation, translation, etc. These data services will be composed into end-user EURECA service such as “Find clinical trial”, “Suggest patients for trial enrolment”, etc.

In the core of the EURECA semantic interoperability platform lie the standard-based semantic core datasets which are linked to the canonical information models that represent the EHR systems and the CT systems respectively. This semantic core datasets together with the devised mappings will enable the linkage between the patient data residing in the EHR and that in the clinical trial systems.

The existing language heterogeneity will also be addressed by translation/mapping of the core data set into the languages used in the information systems for the primary data capture (when a translation of the standard terminologies does not exist in that language).

The EURECA semantic interoperability platform will enable implementation of several scenarios related to the identified issues in patient recruitment and safety in clinical trials, and to enabling large scale data mining and epidemiology studies. Additionally, the increased semantic interoperability and a proper semantic access both to EHR and clinical trial data will also allow to develop a new generation of clinical decision support systems where computerized guidelines can be directly applied to the extracted patient data, helping also the clinical practitioners improve the patient safety and outcomes. Special care will be taken to assure that the entire process of data extraction and linkage is in line with all applicable legal and ethical requirements.
